---
title: "Research (BSc and MSc)"
permalink: /research/
layout: archive
author_profile: true
---

## BSc --- Sensitivity analysis of seismic trace inversion algorithms to different wavelets 
**(in Portuguese: *Teste da sensibilidade dos algoritmos de inversão do traço a diversas ondaletas*)**
{:style="text-align:justify;"}

The estimation of the wavelet or seismic pulse, is a very important step in the processing
and analysis of seismic data. Seismic inversion methods as narrow band, sparse spike and
model based, require information about the wavelet so that the inversion solution, since it
is not unique, may be restricted by comparing the seismic trace with the synthetic traces
generated by the convolution of the model used in the inversion and the estimated wavelet.
Besides helping in the seismic inversion, a good estimate of the wavelet enables an inverse
filter with less uncertainty to be produced in a deterministic deconvolution step, while
tying well logs, a better correlation between the seismic trace and the well is possible.
The methods of wavelet estimation, for the most part, can be divided into two classes,
depending on the use or not of the well log information, these are: statistical methods
and deterministic methods. This work is aimed to test the sensitivity of seismic inversion
algorithms to different wavelets. The estimation of wavelets is done using several methods,
both statistical and deterministic. An analysis of estimated wavelet and the inversion
results with different wavelet estimation methods allows to relate the uncertainty in the
estimated wavelet with uncertainty in the result of the inversion. The inversion wavelet
estimation methods were implemented in MATLAB. Synthetic data were used.
{:style="text-align:justify;"}

### You can downloaded my monograph here: 
{:style="text-align:center;"}

<p style="text-align:center"><a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/19GnWMHBnsUkWI0_v6w1-eNw6eR5pKojO/view?usp=sharing" download="victormonograph"><i class="far fa-fw fa-arrow-alt-circle-down fa-3x" aria-hidden="true"></i></a></p>

## MSc --- Analysis of noise supression using the curvelet transform in post-stack seismic data 
**(in Portuguese: *Análise da atenuação de ruídos via Transformada Curvelet em dados sísmicos pós-empilhamento*)**
{:style="text-align:justify;"}

The estimation of physical parameters from the seismic data is extremely sensitive to
the presence of noise. In this way, great effort is dedicated to conditioning the data prior
to applying inversion techniques. This has motivated the development of increasingly
sophisticated methods. Several approaches exist, here we treat methodologies based on the
Curvelet transform. Locally, curvelets can be seen as plane wave fronts. In addition, they
lead to an optimal sparse representation of seismic events. Consequently, it is suitable for
the treatment of seismic signals. In this work, performance of three methodologies for noise
attenuation in 2D seismic sections, was analysed. The first involves hard thresholding and
the other two, soft. Both controlled and actual data are considered: two terrestrial and
one marine. As a quantitative criterion, two techniques of acoustic inversion of the trace
are adopted, since consistent models are only estimated when as amplitudes of the signal
with properly recovered. The tests demonstrated that all three methods are capable of
attenuating noise and recovering the uncorrupted signal amplitudes, which, consequenty,
lead to good estimates upon inversion. 
{:style="text-align:justify;"}

### You can downloaded my dissertation here: 
{:style="text-align:center;"}

<p style="text-align:center"><a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1m5lxo0TyIGzYNqcBUxrF0ht2dCRjAFeA/view?usp=sharing" download="victordissertation"><i class="far fa-fw fa-arrow-alt-circle-down fa-3x" aria-hidden="true"></i></a></p>
